Repo clone failures (#9142)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/docs/platform/git/import-a-project-by-git-url.md

In <Constant name="dbt" />, you can import a git repository from any valid git URL that points to a dbt project. There are some important considerations to keep in mind when doing this.

## Git protocols

> Use an SSH clone URL for your repository. <Constant name="dbt" /> accepts both common shapes: SCP-style URLs like `git@github.com:organization/repo-name.git` and URLs that start with `ssh://`, for example `ssh://git@github.com/organization/repo-name.git`. Do not use `https://...` or other HTTP URLs, because <Constant name="dbt" /> clones over SSH and cannot clone repositories supplied with the HTTP protocol.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use an SSH clone URL for your repo. dbt supports both common SSH formats:

- `git@github.com:organization/repo-name.git`
- `ssh://git@github.com/organization/repo-name.git`

Don't use `https://...` or other HTTP URLs. dbt clones repos over SSH and can't clone repos that use the HTTP protocol.
```

> ### Equivalent ssh:// URL format

Reviewer: i kinda feel the old header is clearer? what about combining
```suggestion
### Converting SSH URLs to ssh://
```

> ### Equivalent ssh:// URL format {#equivalent-ssh-url-format}

Author: ```suggestion
### Equivalent ssh:// URL format
```

> When you copy an SSH URL from your git provider (usually found under **Code** -> **Clone** -> **SSH**), it is often SCP-style and uses a colon (`:`) between the host and the path. That format is valid in <Constant name="dbt" />. If you prefer a `ssh://` URL instead, you can rewrite it as follows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Git providers often show SSH clone URLs in SCP-style format, with a colon between the host and repo path (usually found under **Code** -> **Clone** -> **SSH**).
```

> SCP-style with a colon:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Example of SCP-style with a colon:
```

```
git@github.com:organization/repo-name.git
user@custom-host.example.com:organization/repo-name.git
```

> 

Reviewer: If you prefer a `ssh://` URL instead, you can rewrite it as follows. The equivalent ssh:// format uses a slash after the host:

> The same location using `ssh://` and `/` in the path:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

1. From <Constant name="dbt" />, click on your account name in the left side menu and select **Account settings**.
2. Go to **Projects** and select a project.
3. Click the **Repository** link to the repository details page.
4. Copy the key under the **Deploy Key** section.

You must provide this Deploy Key in the Repository configuration of your <Constant name="git" /> host. Configure this Deploy Key to allow _read and write access_ to the specified repositories.

**Note**: Each <Constant name="dbt" /> project will generate a different deploy key when connected to a repo, even if two projects are connected to the same repo. You will need to supply both deploy keys to your <Constant name="git" /> provider.

## Troubleshooting clone errors
If <Constant name="dbt" /> can't clone your repository after you connect it using a git URL, the issue is usually one of the following:

> - **The URL is invalid**: Confirm the repo path is correct, the repo exists, and the URL is an SSH URL in the format `ssh://git@HOST/ORG/REPO.git` (not `https://...`). If you copied an SCP-style SSH URL like `git@github.com:ORG/REPO.git`, convert it to the required format.

Reviewer: @nataliefiann is this new behavior? and what's the required format here?

dbt platform currently accepts ssh in ssh or git@ format so i'm not sure why we'd suggest users need to convert it to the required format. the ui itself says it accepts both
<img width="902" height="363" alt="Screenshot 2026-05-12 at 15 14 04" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/e9585257-3138-41a1-911d-116abc16d281" />

Reviewer: might be worth double checking with eng if the platform accepts both git@ or ssh urls. and if both are accepting, we should probably update this doc https://docs.getdbt.com/docs/platform/git/import-a-project-by-git-url?version=2.0#converting-ssh-urls-to-the-correct-format in general but feel free to create a github issue to tackle that
